The reliability of your systems, services, and products are crucial to your
success and the success of your organization. This is something we all know
as people in Operations, IT and IT management, DevOps, SRE, or even as a
developer responsible for the creation of software.

If you have invested heavily in a product or service - hired the best
people, added fabulous features, trained up a sales force to sell it â€“ but
it isn't reliable, if it isn't available when your customers need to use
it, all of your effort has been wasted. As Lenny Fenster, the CTO for the
Microsoft Enterprise Services group says "all the bells and whistles in the
world aren't worth so much if the bells cannot be rung nor the whistles
blown."

The good news is, modern operations practices like site reliability
engineering and DevOps can help. Maybe you are reading this because you've
had a problem in the past with reliability or maybe you are concerned if
you don't nail it now, it will be a problem. In either case, the _Improve
your Reliability_ learning path can help you get started with your
reliability challenges.

One of the things that makes working on reliability in an organization
difficult is there are so many different ways to approach the subject, it
can be hard to know where to begin and in what order to proceed. This
module will provide a map that can help you decide what to work on and in
what order. The other modules in the _Improve your Reliability_ learning
path expand on each of the topics in this map.

## Learning objectives

By the end of this module, you will be able to:

-   Express why reliability is crucial to your success
-   Describe modern operations practices that offer tools you can use to
    work on your reliability challenges
-   Explain the Dickerson hierarchy of reliability and the map it provides
    for approaching reliability challenges

## Prerequisites

TODO
