Basic capacity planning starts with some straightforward calculations, but
there are factors that can complicate the process. In addition to simple
current and predicted usage numbers, you must also factor in the following:

-   Service limits and quotas

-   Cost limitations

-   Code and configuration inefficiencies

-   Dependencies

In this unit, you’ll look at how these considerations can impact your
capacity planning and how to address each of them.

## Service limits and quotas

There is a tendency to see cloud computing as an unlimited resource. In
comparison to traditional server/datacenter models, the capacity of the
cloud appears to be infinite. The cloud does offer a whole new level of
scale. However, like everything else, it does have some limits. Capacity
planning involves understanding when you’re going to reach and hit those
service limits.

When looking at your system and its architecture, you need to understand
the limits for the cloud services you are using. For example, by default
you can have a maximum of 200 virtual machines per VM availability set in
Azure. This may seem like more than enough VMs if you’re just getting
started. However, you need to be aware that when you hit that limit, you
won’t be able to provision any more, and this could potentially result in
an outage.

Likewise, by default you can have 250 storage accounts per subscription,
per region. These are both examples of soft limits that can be increased.
But some services have maximum limits, which you can find at the following
link.

[Azure subscription and service limits, quotas, and constraints](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/azure-subscription-service-limits?WT.mc_id=msignitethetour2019-slides-ops50)

This is something to be aware of and monitor. Let’s look at ways to do
that.

### Azure portal

You can see the service quotas and where you are in relation to those
limits in the Usage and quotas section under Subscriptions \| Settings in
the navigation pane. You can filter on service category such as network /
compute, as well as Azure region. It’ll show you where you are against the
limits.

PLACEHOLDER slide 38

### Via code

You can use the List usages endpoint for any Azure service to get the
current resource usage information as well as the limits for compute
resources under the subscription, as shown in this truncated example.

PLACEHOLDER slide 39

You can see that the current number of Azure Virtual Networks (VNets) being
used is 124 against a limit of 1000. Limit Increases require a support
request, so ensure that you know ahead of time when you might come close to
the threshold.

## Cost limitations

Scaling is not just about throwing more resources at the problem. It’s
important for your organization to understand the cost of your cloud
environment, and that adding more resources generally equals more cost. Be
aware of this and work with your finance teams to ensure you’re in
agreement about current and projected cloud spend.

You should forecast for cost both when initially designing the systems and
when performing regular reviews of your already running systems. Azure
offers tooling to help you understand this.

You can:

-   Plan for the cost of an environment using the
    [Azure calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/)

-   Review current and projected monthly spend in the Azure portal.

-   Set up budgets in Azure Cost Management. This tool can allow you to
    examine your costs at different scopes including management group,
    resource group and subscription. etc)

## Code and configuration inefficiencies

Sometimes throwing resources at the problem with solve it, but that will
cost money. Sometimes scaling isn’t the solution, or isn’t the complete
solution. In some cases, it may be that what appears to be a need to scale
is actually a problem caused by bad coding or configuration.

You can potentially save money and time by finding the bugs first, before
scaling out resources. Some examples of this include:

-   If you have a badly designed database with hot partitions – such as
    using only one partition on a huge noSQL database – it will be slow no
    matter how much you scale.

-   If you have inefficient database queries, make them more performant
    before you throw more resources at the database. Sometimes just adding
    the right index to a database based on common queries can drop your
    costs 100x.

-   If your timeouts are set incorrectly and your database connections are
    getting saturated due to retries from inconsistent timeouts between
    server and database, you need to fix the settings before scaling the
    database.

-   If the developer’s code is inefficient, can you write more efficient
    code to address the problem? Perhaps the code does not free memory when
    it could and so you have been using larger memory VMs when that isn't
    necessary. Fixes like that can provide significant cost savings.

# Dependencies

The changes that are needed to address some of the issues discussed in this
module often have dependencies on the developers of your application. That
means some of the solutions and best practices recommended here will
require collaboration between you and those developers to make it happen.

Although you may not be able to implement all of the recommendations
entirely by yourself, understanding the cloud system and its capabilities
and characteristics can help you to be a driver for change in improving
your systems and their scalability – and thus also improving their
reliability.
