
![The Tailwind Traders logo.](../media/tailwind-traders.png) 

Tailwind Traders is a modern commerce company. For more than 30 years,
the company has been a popular retail destination. It has grown to more
than 50 physical stores. Several years ago, its chief executive officer
(CEO) anticipated changes in retail and bought a competing e-commerce
startup that was growing aggressively in niche markets. Today, the
company is seen as an innovative leader with customer-focused local
storefronts.

The retail innovation team reports to the company's chief technology
officer (CTO), who was the CEO of the acquired e-commerce start-up.
Those technology solutions are the main hub for interactions with
customers. Those solutions affect 60 percent of global revenue and
produce 30 percent of annual gross sales. Examples of those innovations
include:

The new CIO is focused on improving technical operations in multiple
areas to fuel greater innovation throughout the company while limiting
disruptions to core business operations. The cloud will play an
important role in this transition. One of the key requirements for this
transformation is to empower remote workers in a secure manner. The new
CIO wants to ensure remote workers are using multi-factor authentication
and if they're traveling to visit customers, the access should be
restricted based on their geo-location. The CIO also wants to ensure
that all incubation project led by the AI/Robotics Team is tested in an
isolated environment to avoid disruption in the production environment.

To accomplish this vision the CIO hired a new Chief Information Security
Officer (CISO) and made a reorganization to assign the following teams
under this new CISO:

-   Cloud strategy team

-   Cloud security team

-   Cloud adoption team

-   Cloud center of excellence or central IT team

To accomplish this vision, the new CISO needs to modernize the company's
security strategy. The security strategy should include considerations
for all aspects of modern technology environment, current threat
landscape, and security community resources.

### Questions

1. Security Strategy

   -   What are the security strategy principles that should be used in this project?

   -   Who needs to approve the security strategy before it goes live?

2. Validating the solution

   -   Which solution should Tailwind Traders utilize to understand the security state and risk across resources in Azure?

   -   Which product should Tailwind Traders utilize to define consistent security policies and enable controls?

