
In this module you learned how to specify security baseline for PaaS
workloads, and which Azure PaaS workloads are supported by Microsoft
Defeder for Cloud. You also learned how to specify the security baseline
for IaaS VMs, and the general guidelines that you can ensure are in
place regardless of the operating system. You learned about the use of
Microsoft Secure Score to track security posture enhancement overtime in
a SaaS environment and the security requirements for IoT workloads

You also learn the security requirements for Azure App Service and how
to use Microsoft Defender for App Service to provide posture
management and threat detection for this type of workload. You learned
about the requirements for data and storage workloads, and how Azure
Purview can help with data classification and labeling. Lastly, you
learned about the security requirements for containers and container
orchestration.

Visit the links below for more information about the topics covered in
this module:

[Best practices for secure PaaS deployments - Microsoft Azure \|
Microsoft
Docs](/azure/security/fundamentals/paas-deployments)

[Overview of the Office cloud policy service for Microsoft 365 Apps for
enterprise - Deploy Office \| Microsoft
Docs](/deployoffice/admincenter/overview-office-cloud-policy-service)

[Security recommendations for Azure IoT \| Microsoft
Docs](/azure/iot-fundamentals/security-recommendations)

[Microsoft Defender for IoT for organizations documentation \| Microsoft
Docs](/azure/defender-for-iot/organizations/)

[Data \| Microsoft
Docs](/security/zero-trust/data-compliance-gov-data)

[Introduction to Azure Purview - Azure Purview \| Microsoft
Docs](/azure/purview/overview)

[Security - Azure App Service \| Microsoft
Docs](/azure/app-service/overview-security)

[Microsoft Defender for Storage - the benefits and features \| Microsoft
Docs](/azure/defender-for-cloud/defender-for-storage-introduction)

[Container security with Microsoft Defender for Cloud \| Microsoft
Docs](/azure/defender-for-cloud/defender-for-containers-introduction?tabs=defender-for-container-arch-aks)
