
With Software as a Service (SaaS) solutions, the security options that
you can control may be only at the application level. In a Public Cloud
scenario, this requires a high degree of trust in the cloud vendor
because they have complete control of the infrastructure and platform
layers. As well as their reputation and track record, you should assess
the processes they have in place to provide security. When performing
due diligence, you should also assess whether they can provide network
security in addition to application and data security.

Just like Microsoft Defender for Cloud has its Secure Score to assist
you improving the security posture of Azure workloads, Microsoft 365 has
the Microsoft Secure Score that helps with the security posture of your
SaaS environment. Following the Secure Score recommendations can protect
your organization from threats. From a centralized dashboard in the
Microsoft 365 Defender portal, organizations can monitor and work on the
security of their Microsoft 365 identities, apps, and devices. Secure
Score helps organizations to:

-   Report on the current state of the organization's security posture.

-   Improve their security posture by providing discoverability,
    visibility, guidance, and control.

-   Compare with benchmarks and establish key performance indicators
    (KPIs).

The recommendations won't cover all the attack surfaces associated with
each product, but they're a good baseline. You can also mark the
improvement actions as covered by a third party or alternate mitigation.
Currently there are recommendations for the following products:

-   Microsoft 365 (including Exchange Online)

-   Azure Active Directory

-   Microsoft Defender for Endpoint

-   Microsoft Defender for Identity

-   Defender for Cloud Apps

-   Microsoft Teams

Watch this video for a quick overview of Secure score.

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RWUPrP]

#### Security baseline for SaaS

The Office cloud policy service lets you enforce policy settings for
Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise on a user's device, even if the
device isn't domain joined or otherwise managed. When a user signs into
Microsoft 365 Apps for enterprise on a device, the policy settings roam
to that device. Policy settings are available for devices running
Windows, macOS, iOS, and Android, although not all policy settings are
available for all operating systems.

When you create policy configurations, you can review and apply policies
that are recommended by Microsoft as security baseline policies. These
recommendations are marked as "Security Baseline" when selecting
policies. If the policy is recommended as a Security Baseline you'll
see the policy tagged as such in this column. You can also use the
column filter to limit the view to only policies that are tagged as
*Security Baseline*.

:::image type="content" source="../media/security-baseline.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing examples of security baselines." lightbox="../media/security-baseline.png":::