
### Scenario

![The Tailwind Traders logo.](../media/tailwind-traders-logo.png)

Tailwind Traders is a modern commerce company. For more than 30 years,
the company has been a popular retail destination. It has grown to more
than 50 physical stores. Several years ago, its chief executive officer
(CEO) anticipated changes in retail and bought a competing e-commerce
start-up that was growing aggressively in niche markets. Today, the
company is seen as an innovative leader with customer-focused local
storefronts.

The retail innovation team reports to the company\'s chief technology
officer (CTO), who was the CEO of the acquired e-commerce start-up.
Those technology solutions are the main hub for interactions with
customers. Those solutions affect 60 percent of global revenue and
produce 30 percent of annual gross sales. Examples of those innovations
include:

- Boundless commerce: Originally a simple e-commerce solution, this custom-built platform now provides online and offline experiences for customers. Customers can make purchases from the platform. The mobile app gathers information from customers\' viewing history to customize the retail experience with in-store ads, shopping lists, and other interactions.
- Analytics, AI, and robotics innovation: The team is experimenting with drone delivery, autonomous warehousing, and other AI-led approaches to reduce costs, scale through automation, and improve customer experiences. These experiments are built on big data, analytics, and AI solutions.

The new CIO is focused on improving technical operations in multiple
areas to fuel greater innovation throughout the company while limiting
disruptions to core business operations. The cloud will play an
important role in this transition. One of the key requirements for this
transformation is to empower remote workers in a secure manner. The new
CIO wants to ensure remote workers are using multi-factor authentication
and if they're traveling to visit customers, the access should be
restricted based on their geo-location. The CIO also wants to ensure
that all incubation projects led by the AI/Robotics Team is tested in an
isolated environment to avoid disruption in the production environment.

The new CIO is concerned with the rise of high-profile companies getting
compromised and asked the CSO to perform a risk assessment to identify
the companies' high assets and ensure they're secure. In addition, the
CIO wants the CSO to track security posture enhancement overtime and
use cyber-threat intelligence to improve their defences against
threats. The CIO wants to have a monthly meeting to track this progress
and the CSO should present a sort of KPI to show how the company is
progressing. This is the first transformation effort to start since the
new CIO accepted the role. The CIO will closely monitor the project and
will examine how IT operates in the cloud.

### Questions 

1. Evaluate security posture

    - In this scenario, should the company track progress using Azure Security Benchmark or Secure Score? Justify your answer.

    - What tool should the CISO adopt to track progress overtime?

2. Threat intelligence

    - Which tool should be utilized to aggregate CTI feeds and present in a meaningful dashboard?

    - Which tool provides built-in threat intelligence report that can be used to improve the companies' defences?

3. Which security capability will enable Tailwind Traders to implement the CIO's vision of empowering the remote users while enforcing security and restrictions based on the user's geo-location?

     a. Defender for Cloud

     b. Microsoft Sentinel

     c. Azure AD Identity Protection

     d. Azure WAF

     Answer: C

4. Which cloud security capability should be used to enable the AI/Robotics Team test their apps without disrupting the production environment?

     a. SDL

     b. Azure Landing Zone

     c. Azure Policy

     d. On-premises sandbox

    Answer: B

